README.md, before:

<img src="logo/bustub.svg" alt="BusTub Logo" height="200">

-----------------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cmu-db/bustub.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cmu-db/bustub)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/cmu-db/bustub/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/cmu-db/bustub/tree/master)

BusTub is a relational database management system built at [Carnegie Mellon University](https://db.cs.cmu.edu) for the [Introduction to Database Systems](https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu) (15-445/645) course. This system was developed for educational purposes and should not be used in production environments.

**WARNING: IF YOU ARE A STUDENT IN THE CLASS, DO NOT DIRECTLY FORK THIS REPO. DO NOT PUSH PROJECT SOLUTIONS PUBLICLY. THIS IS AN ACADEMIC INTEGRITY VIOLATION AND CAN LEAD TO GETTING YOUR DEGREE REVOKED, EVEN AFTER YOU GRADUATE.**

## Cloning this repo

The following instructions will create a private BusTub that you can use for your development:

1. Go to [https://github.com/new](https://github.com/new) to create a new repo under your account. Pick a name (e.g. `private-bustub`) and make sure it is you select it as **private**.
2. On your development machine, clone the public BusTub:
   ```
   $ git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git public-bustub
   ```
3. You next need to [mirror](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push#Documentation/git-push.txt---mirror) the public BusTub repo into your own private BusTub repo. Suppose your GitHub name is `student` and your repo name is `private-bustub`, you will execute the following commands:
   ```
   $ cd public-bustub
   $ git push --mirror git@github.com:student/private-bustub.git
   ```
   This copies everything in the public BusTub repo into your own private repo. You can now delete this bustub directory:
   ```
   $ cd ..
   $ rm -rv public-bustub
   ```
4. Clone your own private repo on:
   ```
   $ git clone git@github.com:student/private-bustub.git
   ```
5. Add the public BusTub as a remote source. This will allow you to retrieve changes from the CMU-DB repository during the semester:
   ```
   $ git remote add public https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git
   ```
6. You can now pull in changes from the public BusTub as needed:
   ```
   $ git pull public master
   ```

We suggest working on your projects in separate branches. If you do not understand how Git branches work, [learn how](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging). If you fail to do this, you might lose all your work at some point in the semester, and nobody will be able to help you.

## Build

### Linux / Mac
To ensure that you have the proper packages on your machine, run the following script to automatically install them:

```
$ sudo build_support/packages.sh
```

Then run the following commands to build the system:

```
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make
```

If you want to compile the system in debug mode, pass in the following flag to cmake:
Debug mode:

```
$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
$ make
```
This enables [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers), which can generate false positives for overflow on STL containers. If you encounter this, define the environment variable `ASAN_OPTIONS=detect_container_overflow=0`.

### Windows
If you are using Windows 10, you can use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to develop, build, and test Bustub. All you need is to [Install WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10). You can just choose "Ubuntu" (no specific version) in Microsoft Store. Then, enter WSL and follow the above instructions.

If you are using CLion, it also [works with WSL](https://blog.jetbrains.com/clion/2018/01/clion-and-linux-toolchain-on-windows-are-now-friends).

## Testing
```
$ cd build
$ make check-tests
```

## Build environment

If you have trouble getting cmake or make to run, an easy solution is to create a virtual container to build in. There are two options available:

### Vagrant
First, make sure you have Vagrant and Virtualbox installed
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install vagrant virtualbox
```

From the repository directory, run this command to create and start a Vagrant box:

```
$ vagrant up
```

This will start a Vagrant box running Ubuntu 20.02 in the background with all the packages needed. To access it, type

```
$ vagrant ssh
```

to open a shell within the box. You can find Bustub's code mounted at `/bustub` and run the commands mentioned above like normal.

### Docker
First, make sure that you have docker installed:
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install docker
```

From the repository directory, run these commands to create a Docker image and container:

```
$ docker build . -t bustub
$ docker create -t -i --name bustub -v $(pwd):/bustub bustub bash
```

This will create a Docker image and container. To run it, type:

```
$ docker start -a -i bustub
```

to open a shell within the box. You can find Bustub's code mounted at `/bustub` and run the commands mentioned above like normal.

Commit message:

update instructions for duplicating the bustub repository

README.md, after:

<img src="logo/bustub.svg" alt="BusTub Logo" height="200">

-----------------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cmu-db/bustub.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cmu-db/bustub)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/cmu-db/bustub/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/cmu-db/bustub/tree/master)

BusTub is a relational database management system built at [Carnegie Mellon University](https://db.cs.cmu.edu) for the [Introduction to Database Systems](https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu) (15-445/645) course. This system was developed for educational purposes and should not be used in production environments.

**WARNING: IF YOU ARE A STUDENT IN THE CLASS, DO NOT DIRECTLY FORK THIS REPO. DO NOT PUSH PROJECT SOLUTIONS PUBLICLY. THIS IS AN ACADEMIC INTEGRITY VIOLATION AND CAN LEAD TO GETTING YOUR DEGREE REVOKED, EVEN AFTER YOU GRADUATE.**

## Cloning this Repository

The following instructions are adapted from the Github documentation on [duplicating a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/creating-a-repository-on-github/duplicating-a-repository). The procedure below walks you through creating a private BusTub repository that you can use for development.

1. Go [here](https://github.com/new) to create a new repository under your account. Pick a name (e.g. `bustub-private`) and select **Private** for the repository visibility level.
2. On your development machine, create a bare clone of the public BusTub repository:
   ```
   $ git clone --bare https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git bustub-public
   ```
3. Next, [mirror](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push#Documentation/git-push.txt---mirror) the public BusTub repository to your own private BusTub repository. Suppose your GitHub name is `student` and your repository name is `bustub-private`. The procedure for mirroring the repository is then:
   ```
   $ cd bustub-public
   $ git push --mirror git@github.com:student/bustub-private.git
   ```
   This copies everything in the public BusTub repository to your own private repository. You can now delete your local clone of the public repository:
   ```
   $ cd ..
   $ rm -rv public-bustub
   ```
4. Clone your private repository to your development machine:
   ```
   $ git clone git@github.com:student/bustub-private.git
   ```
5. Add the public BusTub repository as a second remote. This allows you to retrieve changes from the CMU-DB repository and merge them with your solution throughout the semester:
   ```
   $ git remote add public https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git
   ```
   You can verify that the remote was added with the following command:
   ```
   $ git remote -v
   origin	git@github.com:student/bustub-private.git (fetch)
   origin	git@github.com:student/bustub-private.git (push)
   upstream	https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git (fetch)
   upstream	https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git (push)
   ```
6. You can now pull in changes from the public BusTub repository as needed with:
   ```
   $ git pull public master
   ```

We suggest working on your projects in separate branches. If you do not understand how Git branches work, [learn how](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging). If you fail to do this, you might lose all your work at some point in the semester, and nobody will be able to help you.

## Build

### Linux / Mac
To ensure that you have the proper packages on your machine, run the following script to automatically install them:

```
$ sudo build_support/packages.sh
```

Then run the following commands to build the system:

```
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make
```

If you want to compile the system in debug mode, pass in the following flag to cmake:
Debug mode:

```
$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
$ make
```
This enables [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers), which can generate false positives for overflow on STL containers. If you encounter this, define the environment variable `ASAN_OPTIONS=detect_container_overflow=0`.

### Windows
If you are using Windows 10, you can use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to develop, build, and test Bustub. All you need is to [Install WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10). You can just choose "Ubuntu" (no specific version) in Microsoft Store. Then, enter WSL and follow the above instructions.

If you are using CLion, it also [works with WSL](https://blog.jetbrains.com/clion/2018/01/clion-and-linux-toolchain-on-windows-are-now-friends).

## Testing
```
$ cd build
$ make check-tests
```

## Build environment

If you have trouble getting cmake or make to run, an easy solution is to create a virtual container to build in. There are two options available:

### Vagrant
First, make sure you have Vagrant and Virtualbox installed
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install vagrant virtualbox
```

From the repository directory, run this command to create and start a Vagrant box:

```
$ vagrant up
```

This will start a Vagrant box running Ubuntu 20.02 in the background with all the packages needed. To access it, type

```
$ vagrant ssh
```

to open a shell within the box. You can find Bustub's code mounted at `/bustub` and run the commands mentioned above like normal.

### Docker
First, make sure that you have docker installed:
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install docker
```

From the repository directory, run these commands to create a Docker image and container:

```
$ docker build . -t bustub
$ docker create -t -i --name bustub -v $(pwd):/bustub bustub bash
```

This will create a Docker image and container. To run it, type:

```
$ docker start -a -i bustub
```

to open a shell within the box. You can find Bustub's code mounted at `/bustub` and run the commands mentioned above like normal.
